Update service-invocation-overview.md (#2419)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/building-blocks/service-invocation/service-invocation-overview.md

Using service invocation, your application can reliably and securely communicate with other applications using the standard [gRPC](https://grpc.io) or [HTTP](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/) protocols.

> In many microservice-based applications multiple services need the ability to communicate with one another. This inter-service communication requires that application developers handle inter-service problems like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In many microservice-based applications, multiple services need to communicate with each other. This inter-service communication requires application developers to handle inter-service problems, like:
```

Author: Good catch! I made those grammatical changes

> - Service discovery. How do I discover my different services?

Reviewer: Trying to find a way to make this stand out more... maybe have the first sentence in the bullet point be bold and the question be italic? Or one or the other? What do you think?

Author: Agreed - good suggestion. I bolded the statement part and kept the questions themselves non-bolded. I think this helps make this part pop a bit more.

- Standardizing API calls between services. How do I invoke methods between services?
- Secure inter-service communication. How do I call other services securely with encryption and apply access control on the methods?
- Mitigating request timeouts or failures. How do I handle retries and transient errors?
-  Implementing observability and tracing. How do I use tracing to see a call graph with metrics to diagnose issues in production?

Dapr addresses these challenges by providing a service invocation API that acts similar to a reverse proxy with built-in service discovery, while leveraging built-in distributed tracing, metrics, error handling, encryption and more.

> Dapr uses a sidecar architecture. To invoke an application using Dapr, you use the `invoke` API on any Dapr instance. The sidecar programming model encourages each applications to talk to its own instance of Dapr. The Dapr instances discover and communicate with one another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr uses a sidecar architecture. To invoke an application using Dapr:

- You use the `invoke` API on any Dapr instance. 
- The sidecar programming model encourages each application to talk to its own instance of Dapr. 
- The Dapr instances discover and communicate with each other.
```

Author: Included these formatting/grammatical suggestions.

Using service invocation, your application can reliably and securely communicate with other applications using the standard [gRPC](https://grpc.io) or [HTTP](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/) protocols.

> In many microservice-based applications multiple services need the ability to communicate with one another. This inter-service communication requires that application developers handle inter-service problems like:

Reviewer 2: I would not repeat "Inter-service" here in the same sentence. 
```suggestion
In many microservice-based applications multiple services need the ability to communicate with one another. This inter-service communication requires that application developers handle problems like:
```

- **Service discovery.** How do I discover my different services?
- **Standardizing API calls between services.** How do I invoke methods between services?
- **Secure inter-service communication.** How do I call other services securely with encryption and apply access control on the methods?
- **Mitigating request timeouts or failures.** How do I handle retries and transient errors?
-  **Implementing observability and tracing.** How do I use tracing to see a call graph with metrics to diagnose issues in production?

Dapr addresses these challenges by providing a service invocation API that acts similar to a reverse proxy with built-in service discovery, while leveraging built-in distributed tracing, metrics, error handling, encryption and more.

Dapr uses a sidecar architecture. To invoke an application using Dapr:

> - You use the `invoke` API on any Dapr instance. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You use the `invoke` API on the Dapr instance. 
```

> - The sidecar programming model encourages each application to talk to its own instance of Dapr. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Each application communicates with its own instance of Dapr. 
```
I would also switch points 1 and 2.

- The Dapr instances discover and communicate with each other.

> ### Service invocation service diagram

Reviewer 2: Having service twice is a mouthful.

Author: Ha! Yes I can see your point. I've updated this to "Service invocation diagram". Maintains the original meaning but cuts out one of the "service" wording dupes.

> ## Features

Reviewer: for lines 34 & 35 - can you add a period at the end?

Service invocation provides several features to make it easy for you to call methods between applications.

### Proxying

> - HTTP Proxying - If you're already using HTTP protocols in your application, then using the dapr HTTP header might be the easiest way to get started. Theres's no need to change your existing endpoint URLs, just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to go. For more information, see [Invoke Services using HTTP]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **HTTP proxying**: If you're already using HTTP protocols in your application, using the Dapr HTTP header might be the easiest way to get started. You don't need to change your existing endpoint URLs; just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to go. For more information, see [Invoke Services using HTTP]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}). 
```

> - gRPC Proxying - Dapr allows users to keep their own proto services and work natively with gRPC. This means that you can use service invocation to call your existing gRPC apps without having to include any Dapr SDKs or include custom gRPC services. For more information, see the [how-to tutorial for Dapr and gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **gRPC proxying**: Dapr allows users to keep their own proto services and work natively with gRPC. This means that you can use service invocation to call your existing gRPC apps without including any Dapr SDKs or custom gRPC services. For more information, see the [how-to tutorial for Dapr and gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).
```

### Service-to-service security

> All calls between Dapr applications can be made secure with mutual (mTLS) authentication on hosted platforms, including automatic certificate rollover, via the Dapr Sentry service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Dapr Sentry service, all calls between Dapr applications can be made secure with mutual (mTLS) authentication on hosted platforms, including automatic certificate rollover.
```

For more information read the [service-to-service security]({{< ref "security-concept.md#sidecar-to-sidecar-communication" >}}) article.

### Retries

> Service invocation performs automatic retries with backoff time periods in the event of call failures and transient errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the event of call failures and transient errors, service invocation performs automatic retries with backoff time periods.
```

## Features
Service invocation provides several features to make it easy for you to call methods between applications.

> ### Proxying

Reviewer 2: Let's call this "HTTP and gRPC service invocation"

Author: Added this change

> - **HTTP proxying**: If you're already using HTTP protocols in your application, using the Dapr HTTP header might be the easiest way to get started. You don't need to change your existing endpoint URLs; just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to go. For more information, see [Invoke Services using HTTP]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}). 

Reviewer 2: I would not called this the Dapr HTTP Header it implies this is different from HTTP header. And this is also the mechanism, in details. I would say more along on the lines of using existing HTTP Client libraries and then including the Dapr application ID in the the HTTP header calls.

Author: Great feedback. I've made these changes in the doc as well

> - **HTTP proxying**: If you're already using HTTP protocols in your application, using the Dapr HTTP header might be the easiest way to get started. You don't need to change your existing endpoint URLs; just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to go. For more information, see [Invoke Services using HTTP]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **HTTP service invocation**: If you're already using HTTP protocols in your application, using the Dapr HTTP header might be the easiest way to get started. You don't need to change your existing endpoint URLs; just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to go. For more information, see [Invoke Services using HTTP]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}). 
```

Author: Added this change, and also adjusted the wording for gRPC as well so each line says: "HTTP service invocation" and "gRPC service invocation" respectively. 

Also made this change throughout the doc wherever HTTP or gRPC "proxying" was used. Updated all instances to say service invocation instead.

Author: Still updated everything for parity but I updated by removing "service invocation" instead for the sub bullets under "HTTP and gRPC service invocation" sections/bullets.

> - **gRPC Proxying**: Dapr allows users to keep their own proto services and work natively with gRPC. This means that you can use service invocation to call your existing gRPC apps without having to include any Dapr SDKs or include custom gRPC services. For more information, see the [how-to tutorial for Dapr and gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).

Reviewer 2: This gRPC and the HTTP statement above should align and currently they say similar things but with different words. Both are the same, the mechanism is different. HTTP is via headers and gRPC is via adding metadata into the message. I suggest making this clear.

Author: Agreed. I went ahead and made those changes.

> - **gRPC Proxying**: Dapr allows users to keep their own proto services and work natively with gRPC. This means that you can use service invocation to call your existing gRPC apps without having to include any Dapr SDKs or include custom gRPC services. For more information, see the [how-to tutorial for Dapr and gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **gRPC service invocation**: Dapr allows users to keep their own proto services and work natively with gRPC. This means that you can use service invocation to call your existing gRPC apps without having to include any Dapr SDKs or include custom gRPC services. For more information, see the [how-to tutorial for Dapr and gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).
```

Author: Added this suggestion based of comments in the previous suggestion so this change has already been made.

## Features
Service invocation provides several features to make it easy for you to call methods between applications.

### Proxying

> - **HTTP proxying**: If you're already using HTTP client libraries within your application, using the HTTP header might be the easiest way to get started. You don't need to change your existing endpoint URLs; just add the Dapr application ID in the HTTP header calls and you're ready to go. For more information, see [Invoke Services using HTTP]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **HTTP**: If you're already using HTTP client libraries within your application, using the HTTP header might be the easiest way to get started. You don't need to change your existing endpoint URLs; just add the Dapr application ID in the HTTP header calls and you're ready to go. For more information, see [Invoke Services using HTTP]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}). 
```

Author: Oh, looks like we agreed on the wording parity. I'll go ahead and drop the "service invocation" wording for the sub bullets under "HTTP and gRPC service invocation" on lines 134-135 and for lines 47-49.

> - **gRPC Proxying**: Dapr allows users to keep their own proto services and work natively with gRPC. This means that you can use service invocation to call your existing gRPC apps without having to include any Dapr SDKs or include custom gRPC services. For more information, see the [how-to tutorial for Dapr and gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **gRPC**: Dapr allows you to keep their own proto services and work natively with gRPC. This means that you can use service invocation to call your existing gRPC apps without having to include any Dapr SDKs or include custom gRPC services. For more information, see the [how-to tutorial for Dapr and gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).
```

Author: Added this change

### Service-to-service security

With the Dapr Sentry service, all calls between Dapr applications can be made secure with mutual (mTLS) authentication on hosted platforms, including automatic certificate rollover.

For more information read the [service-to-service security]({{< ref "security-concept.md#sidecar-to-sidecar-communication" >}}) article.

> ### Retries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Resiliency including retries
```

Reviewer 2: This section should say "to find out more read the resiliency article". This one https://docs.dapr.io/operations/resiliency/resiliency-overview/. This section was written before resiliency was added and now needs to be refreshed.

Author: Great catch. Added in the link pointing users to the resiliency article.

In the event of call failures and transient errors, service invocation performs automatic retries with backoff time periods.

Errors that cause retries are:

- Network errors including endpoint unavailability and refused connections.
- Authentication errors due to a renewing certificate on the calling/callee Dapr sidecars.

> Per-call retries are performed with a backoff interval of 1 second, up to a threshold of 3 times.

Reviewer 2: This is too detailed for the overview and needs to now move to the resiliency article https://docs.dapr.io/operations/resiliency/resiliency-overview/. Talk with @greenie-msft  since he authored these. It should really be detailed here https://docs.dapr.io/operations/resiliency/targets/#apps which is in the diagram, I would just also move this text

Author: Not a problem. I removed the more detailed bits, edited the wording a bit and just left: 
1. The portion describing the feature
2. Link to the full resiliency article

The resiliency feature in the service invocation overview now reads as follows:
_In the event of call failures and transient errors, service invocation provides a resiliency feature that performs automatic retries with backoff time periods. To find out more, see the [Resiliency article here]({{< ref resiliency-overview.md >}})._

@greenie-msft or @msfussell  lmk what you think - I can revert based on feedback. I want to make sure I didn't lose the original intent of this section.

> Per call retries are performed with a backoff interval of 1 second up to a threshold of 3 times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Per-call retries are performed with a backoff interval of 1 second, up to a threshold of 3 times.
```

Reviewer 2: I suggest moving this detail to the Resiliency section (i think it is already there) and linking to the corresponding resiliency topic.

Connection establishment via gRPC to the target sidecar has a timeout of 5 seconds.

### Tracing and metrics with observability

> By default, all calls between applications are traced and metrics are gathered to provide insights and diagnostics for applications, which is especially important in production scenarios. This gives you call graphs and metrics on the calls between your services. For more information read about [observability]({{< ref observability-concept.md >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all calls between applications are traced and metrics are gathered to provide insights and diagnostics for applications. This is especially important in production scenarios, providing call graphs and metrics on the calls between your services. For more information read about [observability]({{< ref observability-concept.md >}}).
```

### Access control

> Applications can control which other applications are allowed to call them and what they are authorized to do via access policies. This enables you to restrict sensitive applications, that say have personnel information, from being accessed by unauthorized applications, and combined with service-to-service secure communication, provides for soft multi-tenancy deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With access policies, applications can control:

- Which applications are allowed to call them.
- What applications are authorized to do. 

For example, you can restrict sensitive applications with personnel information from being accessed by unauthorized applications. Combined with service-to-service secure communication, you can provide for soft multi-tenancy deployments.
```

Attempted to break up a long sentence... hopefully it makes sense!

For more information read the [access control allow lists for service invocation]({{< ref invoke-allowlist.md >}}) article.

### Namespace scoping

> Applications can be scoped to namespaces for deployment and security, and you can call between services deployed to different namespaces. For more information, read the [Service invocation across namespaces]({{< ref "service-invocation-namespaces.md" >}}) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can scope applications to namespaces for deployment and security and call between services deployed to different namespaces. For more information, read the [Service invocation across namespaces]({{< ref "service-invocation-namespaces.md" >}}) article.
```

> **Note**: App ID is unique per application, not application instance. This means regardless of how many instances of that application exist (due to scaling), all of them will share the same app ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: App ID is unique per _application_, not application instance. Regardless how many instances of that application exist (due to scaling), all of them will share the same app ID.
```

### Pluggable service discovery

> Dapr can run on a variety of [hosting platforms]({{< ref hosting >}}). To enable service discovery and service invocation, Dapr uses pluggable [name resolution components]({{< ref supported-name-resolution >}}). For example, the Kubernetes name resolution component uses the Kubernetes DNS service to resolve the location of other applications running in the cluster. Self-hosted machines can use the mDNS name resolution component. The Consul name resolution component can be used in any hosting environment including Kubernetes or self-hosted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr can run on a variety of [hosting platforms]({{< ref hosting >}}). To enable service discovery and service invocation, Dapr uses pluggable [name resolution components]({{< ref supported-name-resolution >}}). For example, the Kubernetes name resolution component uses the Kubernetes DNS service to resolve the location of other applications running in the cluster. Self-hosted machines can use the mDNS name resolution component. The Consul name resolution component can be used in any hosting environment, including Kubernetes or self-hosted.
```

## Example Architecture

> Following the above call sequence, suppose you have the applications as described in the [hello world quickstart](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/blob/master/tutorials/hello-world/README.md), where a python app invokes a node.js app. In such a scenario, the python app would be "Service A" , and a Node.js app would be "Service B".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the above call sequence, suppose you have the applications as described in the [Hello World tutorial](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/blob/master/tutorials/hello-world/README.md), where a python app invokes a node.js app. In such a scenario, the python app would be "Service A" , and a Node.js app would be "Service B".
```

| Quickstart/tutorial | Description |
| ------------------- | ----------- |
| [Service invocation quickstart]({{< ref serviceinvocation-quickstart.md >}}) | This quickstart gets you interacting directly with the service invocation building block. |
| [Hello world tutorial](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/blob/master/tutorials/hello-world/README.md) | This tutorial shows how to use both the service invocation and state management building blocks all running locally on your machine. |
| [Hello world kubernetes tutorial](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/blob/master/tutorials/hello-kubernetes/README.md) | This tutorial walks through using Dapr in kubernetes and covers both the service invocation and state management building blocks as well. |

### Start using service invocation directly in your app
Want to skip the quickstarts? Not a problem. You can try out the service invocation building block directly in your application to securely communicate with other services. After [Dapr is installed](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started), you can begin using the service invocation API in the following ways.

Invoke services using:
- **Proxying** (recommended set up method)

>   - *HTTP Proxying* - Allows you to just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to get started. Read more on this here, [Invoke Services using HTTP.]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - *HTTP* - Allows you to just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to get started. Read more on this here, [Invoke Services using HTTP.]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}) 
```

Author: Looks like you dropped the proxying in favor of just saying HTTP. This doesn't match the wording for HTTP service invocation and gRPC service invocation we adjusted on lines 46-49. Is this intentional? 

I think it would be clearer to either: 
1. Drop the "service invocation" wording after HTTP on line 47 and after gRPC after line 48 or
2. Keep the "service invocation" wording for both lines. 

Whatever decision we converge on, I think it looks better to match the bullet titles/wording for HTTP and gRPC from lines 46-49 with lines 134 and line 153 where we also mention HTTP/gRPC service invocation. Making sure both sections have wording parity for the same concept might make it easier to conceptualize and associate them as the same exact topics. 

Personally I think dropping the service invocation wording altogether within the nested bullet points and just mentioning it in the main bullet (i.e., "HTTP and gRPC service invocation") looks cleaner but I'm fine with either. So lmk what your preference and thoughts are.

Author: This was resolved below.

>   - *gRPC proxying* - For gRPC based applications, the service invocation API is also available. Run the gRPC server, then invoke services using the Dapr CLI. Read more on this in [Configuring Dapr to use gRPC]({{< ref grpc >}}) and [Invoke services using gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - *gRPC* - For gRPC based applications, the service invocation API is also available. Run the gRPC server, then invoke services using the Dapr CLI. Read more on this in [Configuring Dapr to use gRPC]({{< ref grpc >}}) and [Invoke services using gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).
```

Author: Waiting on your thoughts on my comments above before making this change.

Author: This was resolved below - we ended up converging later in your feedback.

6. Dapr forwards the response to the Python Dapr sidecar
7. The Python app receives the response.

> 

Reviewer: For line 106, can you add a period to the end?

| Quickstart/tutorial | Description |
| ------------------- | ----------- |
| [Service invocation quickstart]({{< ref serviceinvocation-quickstart.md >}}) | This quickstart gets you interacting directly with the service invocation building block. |
| [Hello world tutorial](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/blob/master/tutorials/hello-world/README.md) | This tutorial shows how to use both the service invocation and state management building blocks all running locally on your machine. |
| [Hello world kubernetes tutorial](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/blob/master/tutorials/hello-kubernetes/README.md) | This tutorial walks through using Dapr in kubernetes and covers both the service invocation and state management building blocks as well. |

### Start using service invocation directly in your app
Want to skip the quickstarts? Not a problem. You can try out the service invocation building block directly in your application to securely communicate with other services. After [Dapr is installed](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started), you can begin using the service invocation API in the following ways.

Invoke services using:
- **Proxying** (recommended set up method)

>   - *HTTP Proxying* - Allows you to just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to get started. Read more on this here, [Invoke Services using HTTP.]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - *HTTP proxying* - Allows you to add the `dapr-app-id` header to get started. Read more on this in [Invoke Services using HTTP]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}).
```

>   - *gRPC Proxying* - For gRPC based applications, the service invocation API is also available. Just run the gRPC server, and then invoke services using the Dapr CLI. Read more on this here, [Configuring Dapr to use gRPC.]({{< ref grpc >}}) and [Invoke services using gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - *gRPC proxying* - For gRPC based applications, the service invocation API is also available. Run the gRPC server, then invoke services using the Dapr CLI. Read more on this in [Configuring Dapr to use gRPC]({{< ref grpc >}}) and [Invoke services using gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).
```

> - **The SDK** - If you're using a Dapr SDK you'll be able to directly use service invocation through the SDK. Just select the SDK you need, and use the dapr client to invoke a service. Read more on this here, [Dapr SDKs.]({{< ref sdks.md >}}) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **The SDK** - If you're using a Dapr SDK, you can directly use service invocation through the SDK. Select the SDK you need and use the Dapr client to invoke a service. Read more on this in [Dapr SDKs]({{< ref sdks.md >}}). 
```

For quick testing, try using the Dapr CLI for service invocation:

> - **Dapr CLI command** - Once the Dapr CLI is set up simply use `dapr invoke --method <method-name>` command along with the method flag and the method of interest. Read more on this here, [Dapr CLI.]({{< ref dapr-invoke.md >}}) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dapr CLI command** - Once the Dapr CLI is set up, use `dapr invoke --method <method-name>` command along with the method flag and the method of interest. Read more on this in [Dapr CLI]({{< ref dapr-invoke.md >}}). 
```

Invoke services using:
- **Proxying** (recommended set up method)
  - *HTTP Proxying* - Allows you to just add the `dapr-app-id` header and you're ready to get started. Read more on this here, [Invoke Services using HTTP.]({{< ref howto-invoke-discover-services.md >}}) 
  - *gRPC proxying* - For gRPC based applications, the service invocation API is also available. Run the gRPC server, then invoke services using the Dapr CLI. Read more on this in [Configuring Dapr to use gRPC]({{< ref grpc >}}) and [Invoke services using gRPC]({{< ref howto-invoke-services-grpc.md >}}).
- **Direct call to the API** - In addition to proxying, there's also an option to directly call the service invocation API to invoke a GET endpoint. Just update your address URL to `localhost:<dapr-http-port>` and you'll be able to directly call the API. You can also read more on this in the _Invoke Services using HTTP_ docs linked above under HTTP proxying.

> - **The SDK** - If you're using a Dapr SDK, you can directly use service invocation through the SDK. Select the SDK you need and use the Dapr client to invoke a service. Read more on this in [Dapr SDKs]({{< ref sdks.md >}}). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **SDKs** - If you're using a Dapr SDK, you can directly use service invocation through the SDK. Select the SDK you need and use the Dapr client to invoke a service. Read more on this in [Dapr SDKs]({{< ref sdks.md >}}). 
```

Author: Added these changes

For quick testing, try using the Dapr CLI for service invocation:
- **Dapr CLI command** - Once the Dapr CLI is set up, use `dapr invoke --method <method-name>` command along with the method flag and the method of interest. Read more on this in [Dapr CLI]({{< ref dapr-invoke.md >}}). 

## Next steps
- Read the [service invocation API specification]({{< ref service_invocation_api.md >}}). This reference guide for service invocation describes how to invoke methods on other services.
- Understand the [service invocation performance numbers]({{< ref perf-service-invocation.md >}}).

> - Take a look at [Dapr observability]({{< ref monitoring.md >}}). Here you can dig into Dapr's monitoring tools like tracing, metrics and logging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Take a look at [observability]({{< ref monitoring.md >}}). Here you can dig into Dapr's monitoring tools like tracing, metrics and logging.
```

Author: Added this change
